---
name: Developing for Palette
---

When working with Palette there are a number of things to be aware of, be it
adding new components, modifying the theme or updating docs. Read on to learn
how it's done.

### Overview

\- During development most of your time will be spent in
[`packages/palette`](https://github.com/artsy/palette/tree/main/packages/palette),
the main Palette library. Here you'll write new components inside of the
`elements` folder, add tests, and define
[storybook stories](https://github.com/artsy/palette/blob/main/packages/palette/src/elements/Avatar/Avatar.story.tsx)
for each.

\- If adding or changing a component, make sure to update the docs in
[`packages/palette-docs`](https://github.com/artsy/palette/tree/main/packages/palette-docs).

\- If needing to modify the theme, see
[`packages/palette-tokens`](https://github.com/artsy/palette/tree/main/packages/palette-docs).

\- New package versions are published by attaching appropriate semver github
labels to PRs; by default, all PRs have `minor` automatically assigned. When a
PR is merged, a new version goes out.

\- If only updating docs, remove the default `minor` label and attach a `docs`
label. This will skip the `npm publish` step.

\- To publish a canary version to NPM to test in other apps, add the `canary`
label. Once CircleCI is done running, view the
[`auto/publishing-canary`](https://app.circleci.com/pipelines/github/artsy/palette/4138/workflows/ffc56588-35bf-41ed-a0a8-a806fc807678/jobs/20148)
job output to see the npm version number and then update the consuming app
accordingly.

\- Alternatively, you can use `yarn link` to test your changes in Force, or any
other app. Run

```sh
cd packages/palette
yarn link
yarn watch
```

And then back in your app, run

```sh
yarn link @artsy/palette
yarn start
```

**Note:** When `yarn link`'ing Palette, there are some issues with type-checking
that can be confusing and lead to false-positives. Also, when done, be sure to
run `yarn unlink @artsy/palette && yarn --check-files` to re-install the latest
version of Palette from NPM; many a dev has fallen down the rabbit hole of
trying to fix type errors that aren't actually errors due to forgetting that
Palette is currently `yarn link`'d.

### Relevant Commands

```sh
yarn storybook
yarn docs
yarn test
yarn type-check
```

See `packages/<package-name>/package.json` for complete list.

### Monorepo Structure

Palette is a [monorepo](https://lerna.js.org/) that is composed of a number of
sub-packages:

- `palette-tokens`
- `palette`
- `palette-docs`
- `palette-charts`

### palette-tokens

Starting at `palette-tokens`, we can see the
[theme](https://github.com/artsy/palette/blob/main/packages/palette-tokens/src/themes/v3.tsx)
that powers all of Palette. This is a simple object with keys such as
`breakpoints`, `space` and `color`, and is read in by the main `palette` lib as
well as [Eigen](https://github.com/artsy/eigen), our React Native mobile app.

### palette

The `palette` package is where all of our components are defined. See the
[elements](https://github.com/artsy/palette/tree/main/packages/palette/src/elements)
folder for the complete list.

### palette-docs

This is a where our docs are created, built on top of
[Gatsby](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/). Docs are written in `.mdx` (Markdown React)
which allows us to create live, interactive code examples using real Palette
components.

### palette-charts

This is where our charting components live, built on top of
[D3.js](https://d3js.org/).
